Our second scripture reading for the day is indeed the Lord's prayer.
If you want to read along with me, it's on page seven of the New Testament in your pew Bible.
It's Matthew six versus nine through 13.
Will you please stand as we hear the gospel if you're able?
When you pray,
pray this way.
Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name.
Your kingdom come.
Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
And give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors and do not bring us into the time of trial, but rescue us from the evil one.
This is the word of God.
for the people of God.
You may be seated.
During the last couple of weeks, we've been looking at the Lord's prayer kind of in segments.
And today we're going to take time to look at what I think is probably the least understood and most ignored part of the Lord's prayer that we have.
But I want to start by asking you a question.
Have you ever just wanted to be God for a day?
I mean, be honest that you could control lightning and other elements and just kind of make some commands and rearrange things.
I've had that temptation, you know, but the truth is that's not a new temptation.
Really, all the way back to the beginning with Adam and Eve, the temptation was what the serpent said is, you don't need God.
You got this.
I don't got this.
But we don't learn very quickly.
Generation to generation, people tried to figure out how to make the world work outside of the garden.
And finally, they came to the season where they said, hey, God, we want a king.
We want a king.
And God said, you don't need a king.
Just going to be trouble.
And what do we say?
Nah, we got this.
We just need a king.
So God said, you asked for it.
You got it.
And so who was the first king?
Saul.
Now was Saul a great king?
No, Saul was terrible.
Oh, he was handsome and ready and powerful, but as soon as he was placed in the position of power, he went crazy.
He couldn't handle it.
And so in the midst of the pressure and the power and the temptations, he wrecked Israel.
And so quietly at night in their prayers, the Hebrew people would say, we want another king.
Contestant number two.
And out of the shepherd's field came King David.
the mighty slayer of the giants, the innocent shepherd boy, the one who boldly stood up against the enemies of God's people, and David became king.
And it went okay for a little while.
I mean, Scripture tells us David was a man after God's own heart, but then there were little things like killing
one of your soldiers so that you can commit adultery with his wife.
I mean, little things that just kind of clouded the picture a little bit.
And David tried to repent and he tried to change.
And as he got older and the conflicts grew and the tensions grew and the enemies grew, then there began to be a prayer from
the Hebrew people.
Maybe we need another king.
And then came Solomon.
And his intent was to turn people back to God.
And so he built this beautiful temple.
He created a God centers community, but before he knew it, it had gotten out of his control.
And every since then,
The people have been praying God send us.
Okay, it's been bad.
We'll take David back.
We'll have a do over.
And as the Hebrew people prayed, they prayed that David would come back and be their Messiah and lead them and form and shape a kingdom, bring them back to power, make them, I shouldn't say great again.
but it never happened.
And into that picture comes Jesus.
And as Jesus watches, he sees the fact that's been the pattern of history since the beginning of time.
People want one or two things and
Truly, they want them both at the same time.
We want to be God, but we don't have the capacity to do it, but we want what we want when we want it.
And if we can't be God and be king of our own life, then what we'd really like to have is something kind of like England has, kind of a monarchy that has a king that has all the fruit fruit that goes with it, but we still make all the decisions.
I mean, we like somebody to wear the crown and look royal and we'll go to the palace and pay homage, but we still want to be in control.
Y'all, we're not good at it.
I don't care what political party you're from.
I don't care what country you're from.
I don't care what your heritage is from.
We were not made to rule this world.
And so as Jesus watched his disciples and listened to the buzz of the Hebrew people saying, we want our Messiah to come.
We want David to come and kick the Romans out.
We want to go back to the old ways where we were powerful and in control when they really weren't ever in control.
And so it was not subtle in Jesus' eyes when the disciples asked him to pray
that he worded the prayer the way he did.
I'm going to make another confession.
A lot of times when I'm praying the Lord's prayer and I get to the part where it says, thy kingdom come, thy will be done.
My mouth is saying those words, but my brain is saying my kingdom come.
My will be done.
I just want you to baptize it.
I want you to make it happen.
But what Jesus was truly saying to us and asking us to pray whenever we pray is to say, Dear God, we miss the Garden of Eden.
We miss the way
we were created to live.
We have messed up and we don't have the capacity to change it.
And so here is our prayer.
Thy kingdom come.
Thy will be done on earth.
as it is in heaven.
Jesus reminds us that this place we live is not heaven.
It is not the garden.
It is the place we have perpetually broken.
I don't like hearing that.
I'm an eternal optimist.
But the world we live in is in critical brokenness.
And news alert, no matter who's elected the next president, they will not fix the brokenness.
Whoever's elected your next senator or representative, whoever we politically gather to build a new nation, kingdom,
is not capable of doing that themselves.
And so as Jesus pulled his disciples to him, part of the reason that he asked them to pray that prayer was for them to reframe their thinking where they were no longer thinking, we want King David to come back and go to war and destroy the Romans, he wanted them to think.
I want to love and obey God with everything that I have, regardless of what the world has to say to me.
Thy kingdom come.
Thy will be done is the core of who we should be.
It is simply put a very humbling place that we're called to, a place that puts us
in our souls on our knees in the presence of the most holy Creator that causes us to remind ourselves that we're not nearly as big or powerful or smart as we think we are, not that we're not fearfully and wonderfully made, but we were not made to rule the world.
We were made to follow the one who does.
the one who made it, the one who formed and shaped us.
Our culture is a very dangerous culture to live that out in because we live in a culture that's born around freedom, which was a gift God gave us in the beginning, the freedom of choice, the freedom of deciding how we will live.
But in God's creative purpose, that freedom was always supposed to be couched in loving God first.
In that sixth chapter of Matthew, Jesus teaches us to pray that He is the one that brings provision, that God is the one that brings frame to life, that God has already created the government,
that we were made to live in.
And Jesus put it very simply, love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul and strength and love your neighbor as yourself.
Wouldn't it be cool if that's the only law we needed?
That's the only law they need in heaven.
It's the only way the angels and those who are there in the presence of God live.
It is what we are called
to live into.
I want to ask you another question.
As we read that chapter in Luke, one of the things that Jesus said to kind of flesh out this kingdom of God was, what does it look like to live in the kingdom of God?
And Jesus uses this beautiful litany of natural things, the lilies,
The birds.
You know, so many times in our mind, we think if we don't take control and do these things and don't misunderstand me, I don't think that we can walk through life thinking God makes every decision.
But what I do believe is we can walk through life believing that God is indeed looking out for our best interest and for our provision.
Maybe not at the level we expect.
And so Jesus said to him, take no care for what you will eat or for what you will wear.
Do you ever think about the story of creation and think about, what was the first realization that Adam and Eve made?
We're naked.
Maybe if we hadn't sinned, we'd all be in the biggest, nudist colony in the world.
You wouldn't have to go buy clothes or figure out what matched or what didn't.
And you wouldn't be caught up in the middle of that.
You know what I found in my life?
Most of the wounds and the tribulation I face are self-inflicted because I've tried to make decisions I really didn't have to make.
What I've found with most people who are coming to the faith is, they may know the Lord's prayer, but they don't really believe in prayer.
Do you hear me?
We can say those words.
But the truth is prayer is more than words.
Let's back up to that phrase that we're focusing on today.
Thy kingdom come, thy will be done.
You know what that infers?
We don't get that by talking.
We get that by listening.
Prayer's not prayer if we're not listening.
Prayer's not a dialogue if God is not speaking to us and giving us direction.
And we can get caught up in all the technicalities.
Well, how do I know if it's God?
Does he sound like Morgan Freeman?
Or what does God sound like?
Well, the truth be told,
It's been my experience that when God speaks to us, our soul knows.
That may sound like a cheap way out, but it's not.
But here's the last conversation I want us to have along with this that I need to make you aware of.
You see, the importance of what Jesus was teaching
them as they prayed to say, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
There's another phrase deeper down into the prayer.
We'll look at more depth that lead us not into what?
Temptation.
You want to know why that's in there?
Is because when we seek God's will, it's exactly like in the beginning temptation.
Every time we have a choice to make, guess who shows up to give us another choice.
That's another reason God gave us the gift of decision.
We have to choose what voice we listen to.
When Sidney and I were in seminary, our first job, we had gone, we were promised a job, we went to get there, we got to the school and they said, oh, we forgot you.
It was delightful.
We had no place to live, so we found this little apartment that was about the size of an inside of a refrigerator.
You could literally step out of the bed into the commode, you know, if you weren't careful.
It was just a tiny thing.
The kitchen was decorated with Christmas paper that some guys had lived in before had literally stuck on the walls and we had to peel it off.
There was so much mildew on the big window that you had to take a scraper to scrape it off.
Other than that, it was good.
We took the last money we had, we paid for that, and then I went looking for a job a few days, and finally it was one of those days, and those of you couples know these days, I came home and Cindy looked at me and said, don't come home tomorrow without a job.
I came home with two.
The main job was a place where we got a new place to live.
We got the job, I got the job as a night manager in a 15-story senior adult retirement center.
All I had to do was answer all the emergency calls during the night, let the paper man in at five o'clock in the morning and help around inspecting as we locked up at night.
Y'all old people are wild.
I could tell you stories for years, but it didn't take us long to decide that wasn't where God had called us to work.
That was just so
Literally one night we just got on our knees and said, Lord, you got to help us.
You got to help us find a place to be that we really need to be before we die or something happens.
Literally the next day I got three phone calls.
The first one was my dream phone call.
I love to preach more and I love to eat.
I was going to seminary mostly because I had to.
And one of the district superintendents called because in his words, he knew those Mississippi boys could preach.
And he offered me a full time church that was incredible.
And as soon as he hung up, I want to say yes, but then another call came.
And then another call that was in a little church
Not that little out in Marietta that not only had a youth associate position, but it had a position for an administrative assistant or a secretary.
Then as we prayed about it, we really knew that was meeting.
It meant every need we had.
And what I began to realize in retrospect was that other offer was my temptation.
not God's provision.
And the miraculous thing that happened was, as we both fell in love with that church, they loved and cared and watched over us.
I had a mentor who was an incredible administrator and teacher, and I probably learned more from him than I ever learned in seminary.
Thy will be done.
Praying that prayer is not easy because it requires us to listen.
It requires us to humble ourselves.
It requires us to turn out the noise of the world and to focus on the way of God.
Today we celebrate the sacrament of communion and it's this incredible gift that we miss all the layers of.
One of the layers is this
is the king's table.
This is the place we come to break bread with our Lord, where God Himself and Jesus Christ meets us at the table.
And in the presence of His Holy Spirit seeks to infiltrate our souls and impress upon us the ways of His kingdom so that we can walk out those doors.
And as the litany says,
as these elements become the body of Christ for us in the Holy Spirit, we become the body of Christ for the world.
And we march out this door as ambassadors for the King, not as Republicans or Democrats, even though we are, whether we like it or not, but first and foremost, as servants.
Servants.
of the God of creation.
So today as you kneel, it's not just part of the litany.
As we ask you to kneel, it is a symbol of humility and submission and honor.
And for those of you
who can't physically kneel.
It is that time in your heart to be brought low in the presence of the Almighty Creator and to remind yourself that the God we worship here knows what He's doing.
that the God we worship here is more powerful than any earthly power and that the God we worship here will be here long after we're gone and hopefully when we're in the kingdom with Him.
This prayer calls us not to be of this world, but to be of the Creator.
Let us pray.